in this video we are going to review how
to use the USB recovery drive to restore
your computer from a system image
created using the file history tool in
Windows 8 and Windows 8.1 restoring your
computer from a system image restores
all of the information on your computer
as it existed at the time of the backup
this includes the Windows operating
system programs and personal files and
folders note that you cannot create a
system image on one computer and restore
it to a computer that has a different
make and model for example if you have
an IBM X 100 laptop and a samsung Y 250
laptop you cannot create an image of one
and restore it to the other this is
because different makes and models use
different drivers and other settings
specific to each device however if you
have two computers that are the same you
can image one and restore that image to
the other to begin make sure your
external hard drive is unplugged and
boot the computer from the USB recovery
drive that was created this may require
pressing a function key at startup such
as f12 or the Delete key or the Escape
key to boot from the optical drive the
website crafted flash has compiled a
nice list that may help you find the
right function key to get to the boot
menu the link can be found in the show
notes for this video with any luck your
computer will automatically boot from
the recovery drive the choose your
keyboard layout window will appear click
the appropriate layout
at this time plug in your external hard
drive next the choose an option screen
will appear click troubleshoot and the
following three options will appear
refresh your PC which reinstalls your
operating system without erasing your
personal files such as your documents
pictures and music reset your PC which
completely erases your hard drive along
with all of your personal files and
reinstall your operating system and
Advanced Options which is what we will
choose here click Advanced Options and
then click system image recovery
the window reimage your computer will
appear
the scan should find the backup and the
information will appear under use the
latest available system image
recommended click Next under choose
additional restore options click the
checkbox next to format and repartition
disks if available click Next
and then click finish a warning message
will appear that the restorer will
replace all information on the hard
drive click yes to continue the restore
will begin and may take several hours
once the restore is finished the
computer will restart or can be
restarted manually before the 60-second
window expires by clicking restart now
remove the USB recovery drive and the
external hard drive and click restart
now
the computer is now restored from the
system image to include Windows 8 or 8.1
all programs and all personal files and
folders in this video we reviewed how to
use the USB recovery drive to restore
your computer from a system image
created using the file history tool in
Windows 8 and Windows 8.1 the show notes
for this video are available by clicking
the link below the video please help to
support helpful video tips com by
subscribing to this YouTube channel and
visiting helpful video tips com to
follow along on social media I'm Tom
Sutton thank you for watching